I found a new AI tool and I am obsessed.
It's completely open source and I use it
every day. It's called Fabric. Daniel,
tell me what fabric is.
So basically the goal is
to augment humans with ai,
so it's all about reducing that
friction to be able to use AI for your.
Problems. That's Daniel Meer,
the creator of Fabric Reducing Friction
so you can use AI to solve your
problems. That's the real
purpose of technology and ai,
and that's what this Project
Fabric is helping us do.
I legit use this every day
and I think you might too.
So in this video we're going to break
down what Fabric is and I'll show you how
to set this up so you can start using it
right now and later in this video I'll
show you how I use Fabric to
access my local AI server. Terry,
wherever I go with a sponsor
of this video, twin Gate,
we'll talk more about them later.
Okay? You want to see
something absolutely crazy?
Yes, Daniel, I do get you
coffee ready? Let's do this.
Now before we dive too deep,
I want to give you a feel for
what Using Fabric is kind of like,
what's the use case? What
would I use this for?
This you're going to love watch this.
Let's say I've got a YouTube video,
this two hour interview that
maybe I don't have time to watch,
so I'll grab the link and on my
command line I'll use the tool YT dash
transcript and paste the link,
and this is going to grab the transcript
of that YouTube video. By the way,
this is a tool that's built into fabric.
That alone makes this thing amazing.
Then I'll pipe that over into Fabric
two hour YouTube video. Here we go.
Within moments I'm told about David
Bumble and everything we discuss in this
video, the ideas, insights, quotes,
like this one man who said that smart guy.
So within a few moments I took a two
hour YouTube interview and extracted all
the wisdom and insights I need
to know. That's crazy, right?
So what's happening here? What is
Fabric doing? Let's break that down.
First we start off with some kind of
text. In this case, a YouTube transcript.
It really could be anything. And then
Fabric will send this text, in this case,
our YouTube transcripts
off to your favorite ai.
It could be models from open ai,
anthropic or even local models with Alama,
which again,
I will show you how to access a local
server from anywhere using to one gate
here in a bit. Now looking at the command,
it's not just sending the transcript
by itself. Here you go, ai.
It's using this thing called
Extract Wisdom. What is that?
This is the secret sauce behind fabric
and something you should get pretty
excited about. Daniel,
tell us more about it.
What I've done is take any piece of AI
from any platform that is interesting and
usually the language that I
care about is actually prompts.
So what we started doing is collecting
all these prompts into this concept
called patterns.
A set of instructions or a way to get
the AI to do what we want it to do. Now,
this is not a new concept. Prompt
engineering is a thing, but this,
it's a bit different, different in
two ways that I am a big fan of.
They're open source and they're
crowdsourced. I'll be the first to admit.
That's kind of a weird concept for a
prompt, but here's why it's cool. First,
these prompts or patterns, we'll
just call 'em patterns from now on,
have been carefully curated,
created, manipulated,
added to do exactly what it's
designed to do to solve a problem,
a very specific problem,
and it's everyone including maybe you
that helps create these prompts to make
them better. Now, let's take a look at
this one in particular. I love this one,
extract wisdom. You'll really get a
feel for what I'm talking about here.
And this is the other
cool part about this.
It's open source so you can
actually see this system prompt.
Normally when you're
interacting with GPTs,
you can't see the actual prompt
being sent to the AI here,
we're controlling that. We're part of
that and I want to show you this one part.
I think this will illustrate
what I'm talking about.
Look at how this prompt talks to the ai.
Take a step back, think step by step,
think deeply. It kind of sounds like
he's talking to this AI like a human,
and that's exactly the
case. Even Daniel said.
You're basically telling
it to act like a human.
We don't know why it works,
but just talking to these AI like
they're humans elicits a better response,
better results. Kind of scary
Do with that what you will,
but I point that out to say that these
prompts have been tested time and time
again added to similar to what you
would see with open source code,
and this is just one pattern.
Look over here on the side,
look at all of these that have been
created and you don't have to stop there.
You can create your own, which I've done
that and oh my gosh, that's the secret.
It's so amazing. But hold on,
you might be like me and think this
kind of seems just like fancy prompts.
What is this thing actually doing
that I can't just do with chat?
GBTI want to revisit this idea Fabric
is all about reducing friction to have
AI help you solve problems.
And one of the areas of friction I didn't
even realize I had was the fact that I
had to keep going out to chat
GBT, open up a web interface,
load up maybe a custom GBT or start
having a conversation and it didn't feel
like a lot of time, but that is
time it gets in the way fabric,
and this is one of the reasons I
fell in love with it is CLI native.
You do everything here in the CLI,
which I get may or may not excite you,
but you're not limited to that.
Daniel Meer touches more on that.
What I'm trying to do is make the
on-ramp to using these things as easy as
possible. So I want to be
able to use them via voice.
I want to be able to use them
via command line via a gooey app.
I want to be able to just access
them as quickly as possible.
So that's the main thrust of
this project is to collect
problems, collect the solutions
in the form of these patterns,
and then to have as many
on-ramps onto them as well.
Now I'll talk more about why I love
that it's here in the command line,
but it's more than just
how you interact with it.
Think about how you might use this to
build programs instead of going through
the pain of interfacing with AI APIs.
So that's kind of hard to say
actually it wasn't. Anyways,
you can just use fabric.
Now check this out.
I want to show you something
I did actually yesterday.
I'm trying to build my
cardiovascular health.
So I started running and rowing and I
tracked that with the app called Strava,
which gets all sorts of amazing data.
So I wrote a Python script to interact
with their API to pull down all my data
and it looks like this,
a bunch of messy JSON,
but I created a pattern called Workout
summary and it takes care of the JSON for
me or I can just bake fabric
right inside my Python script.
And that's just a simple
example. This thing is crazy.
Now we're about to set this up, but
I want to talk about one more thing.
It's called a World of Text
and it's a concept that I'm
really adopting now, thank you to Daniel
Mesler. Go ahead and tell him Daniel,
about this world of text.
20 Years ago I got into this guy
named David Allen who basically said,
never ever store anything in
your brain. Immediately capture.
What I do now is I capture a concept or
a structure for an essay or something.
I capture it immediately in a note and
now that it's text and because I'm fairly
proficient with Vim and the Terminal,
my whole world is text and the ability
to manipulate text and I have all my
notes in text and when I record
something that's actually sound,
I immediately transcribe it, send it
to Notion, and so it's also in text.
So now I have this world of text that
I could use and now I have this AI
infrastructure that manipulates text
using AI to get results that help us as
humans.
So it's about getting everything into a
text format so it can be used anywhere
by anything, especially ai.
And notice when I run these commands
like getting this YouTube transcript,
it's outputting this in marked down
format so it can play nice pretty much
wherever it goes, especially
my notes application obsidian.
Now we'll touch more on the philosophy
of why I think this is amazing and I'll
show you a few more patterns
I've been working with.
But now let's get you set up. Let's
get fabric on your computer right now.
And by the way,
if you want to see the full Daniel Meisler
interview where we talk about a ton
of other stuff from cybersecurity,
AI scares to just bonding over
coffee because we both love coffee.
I'll have that full interview on Network
Check Academy. Just check that out.
Anyways, what do we need? Honestly, just
a computer. Now, as I mentioned before,
this is Command Line World and this is
going to be a Linux-based or Unix-based
system, but we're not leaving
out anybody here. You got a Mac,
it works great on Mac. In fact,
Daniel Mesler, all he does is use Mac.
He loves it. Linux, of course, if
you use Linux is your main desktop,
you'll have a good time. And then
Windows, which is what I use WSL,
the Windows subsystem for
Linux, so it'll work everywhere.
You have Linux and Linux is everywhere.
What a time to be alive, right?
Coffee break. For that coffee break, the
setup and install is actually really,
really fast.
I'm going to set up a new machine
here in WSL on my Windows machine.
You don't have to do this unless
you don't already have one.
And then best practice,
just go ahead and do a pseudo a PT update
to update your repos and go ahead and
run a pseudo a PT upgrade if
you haven't already. Now on Mac,
you don't have to do that,
just make sure you have your system
updates and you'll be golden.
Now let's install Fabric,
Mac, windows, Linux.
We're all following along right now.
First we'll just copy and
paste this command cloning
the Fabric project from Git
Hub. If we type in ls, there's
the fabric project right there.
We'll go ahead and jump in there, CD
fabric. And then to install everything,
we'll use a tool called PIP x, but
we'll have to install PIP X first.
Now on Mac and Windows with WSL,
we'll do a pseudo a PT install Pip x.
If you're on Mac, you'll want
to use a tool called Brew.
Brew is an amazing utility and I think
Package Manager that enables you to
install a ton of things and
you should have it on your Mac.
So install brew first if
you don't already have it.
And then with the Command Brew,
say Brew, install PIP x. Again,
that's Mac only. I'll go
ahead and install PIP X. Yep,
and now we'll install Fabric
with pip x. Simply type in pip.
I've been sing PIP XA lot, it's
making me feel weird. Anyways,
pip x install dot, that
should be it. Ready, set,
go and done. We have all
these tools installed.
I do have a note from me saying that
my path variables aren't correct.
I'll just run this command real quick.
You might have to do the same thing.
Pit backs Ensure Path done, and
now Fabric is almost ready to go.
We'll just need to run one command
fabric, dash dash setup. Oh wait,
I got to refresh my
terminal. If you're in Linux,
you'll do source tilda or library
sign, whatever you want to call that.
Bash rc. If you're on
Mac wll, be Z-S-H-R-C.
If you're using ZSH as your default.
And now we should be able to
do fabric dash dash setup.
And what this will do is ask you
for a couple things. Your open AI,
API key if you want to use G PT four
and all those other models and also your
Anthropic API key to use the cloud
models. Now what that means is yes,
you will need an API key. So if you
don't already have one, go get one.
I'll put a link down below
showing you how to do that.
I'm going to grab mine real
quick and I'll paste that there.
And then my Claude API key,
which is the Anthropic API key.
And then one more thing, it's
going to want your YouTube API key.
So when you are going out to YouTube
to pull those transcripts from videos,
you can even do comments. It will
use a Google, YouTube, API key.
Those are free to set up. Again,
I'll have a link below to
show you how to do that.
And once you've added your
API keys, that's it. Now
you may be wondering, Chuck,
why do we have to do that? Well, remember,
fabric is just a framework
in itself is not ai.
It will use whatever favorite AI you have.
Now that does mean that if you're
using Open AI or anthropic,
you're going to have to pay for that
usage and it's a pay as you go thing.
Put your credit card in there.
Most of the time it does end up being
cheaper than just paying for Chad GPT the
Pro, but just keep that in mind. Now,
if you don't want to pay anything and you
don't want to give any data to anybody
ever, there's local LLMs as well, which
Fabric just added. Thank you, Daniel.
So if you have Alama installed or llama
installed on a remote server like I do
on Terry, we can type in fabric
and do dash dash list models.
And right here are the available local
models. I'll grab a YouTube video.
This one by Peter McKinnon,
I've been meaning to watch.
I'll just grab the summary
and then with Fabric,
I'll do a dash dash model
to specify a certain model.
In my case it'll be
LAMA three colon latest.
Then I'll do dash SP to specify the
pattern, which will be Extract Wisdom.
And just like that, I'm
using a local model.
Now if I want to use a bigger
model like Llama three seven db,
that's not going to run on my local
computer, but it will run on Terry.
So to connect to a remote AI server,
specify remote llama server,
put the IP address in of your
remote server. This is Terry.
Specify the model Llama three 70 B,
and then your pattern. Now I'm not sure
what the whole Alex and Jordan thing,
but that's how you do it.
And when I'm away from Terry,
when I'm out of the office remote
somewhere, I still want to talk to him.
And here's how I do it. When I'm working
remote out and about as I normally do,
I got to make sure I can run my
fabric commands and access Terry.
Wherever I am right now, it's not
going to work. I'm getting nothing.
That's where Twin Gate comes in.
My favorite way to remotely access my
stuff back at home, my office, my studio,
everything. Setting up Twin
Gate is pretty stinking easy,
easier than standing in
a field. What was that?
All you have to do is set up a free
twin gate account, create a network,
and then deploy connector.
It could be a Docker container on a
Raspberry Pi in your house or running on
your Sonology nas like I do at my home.
And within a few minutes you get remote
access to everything you want to like
now lighting strikes, nah, I'm
good. Wildlife maybe. What was that?
But seriously, wherever I go,
wherever I am, other hidden holes,
I can remotely access my stuff
back at home, including Terry.
My AI server Twin Gate is special because
they use all the latest and greatest
technologies to make sure
your connection is fast,
including quick one of the new internet
protocols that is blazingly fast.
And with Twin Gate, you can control
exactly what your people have access to.
All my employees, I don't want you using
Terry when you're away from the office,
but you can log into the server
and work. I'll allow that.
So if you want to use my remote access
solution, check it out, link below.
I've been using it for over a year and
it's my favorite way to remotely access
everything. I even did it when I was
in Japan too. Worked great. Alright,
I'm getting out of here.
Now let's get a bit more advanced and
break down some fabric stuff first.
You don't have to just give it stuff
like copy and paste from a YouTube
transcript or something
to work with fabric.
You could ask a basic question
like watch this. I can echo saying,
give me a list of all ice
creams flavors and what year
they originated. Actually,
I'm pretty curious about that.
I'll pipe that into fabric and
we'll break this down a bit.
So far we've been using
the command or the switch.
Sp that's a combined switch. Let's
split 'em up so we can talk about it.
So dash s and dash P dash s is for
stream. And when we use that switch,
we're telling it to go ahead and output
whatever the AI says as it's saying it
stream it to us. PP is for
specifying the pattern.
So right after you put the
pattern you want to use,
and we'll just say the pattern
ai, which is a specific pattern,
just allowing us to talk
with AI just told me, no,
you can't do the AI exceeds practical
limits. You exceed practical limits.
I'm just kidding. Let's try something
more easy. There we go. Now we're talking.
And by the way, when I use
fabric about specifying a model,
it defaults to using open AI and GPT-4
Turbo. If you want to change that,
especially if you want
to stick to local models,
we can do fabric dash list models to
see all our models and then do fabric,
dash, dash change default model
and then specify the model.
Now we can also do the command
fabric, dash dash list,
just the list and it'll list all the
available patterns we have right now.
Again, so many things you can play with.
Now I want to show you something crazy.
As Daniel mentioned before, the theme
behind fabric is very well, fabric E,
so you got fabric, then you've got
patterns. If you want to run a server,
which does some fun stuff, I'm not going
to cover right now, it's called a mill.
But you can also do
what's called stitching,
which allows you to stitch patterns
together. So let's try this.
I've got this article, this long
read about that YouTuber poppy,
do you remember her? She's still around.
She's crazy. It's super long read.
I'm just going to copy and
paste everything and put
this into fabric PB paste
fabric. And by the way, I know
you're probably wondering, Chuck,
how are you doing that?
What is this PB paste thing?
This is built in by default
into Max. So if you have a Mac,
just enjoy it on WSL and
Linux. It's harder to do.
I'll show you how to do that here in
a minute. And if I run out of time,
I'll show you somewhere else. Anyways,
we'll paste that in there and
I'll use the prompt, summarize.
So summarize the article,
and then I'll pipe that result into
another fabric command or stitch
it. And this pattern will be right essay.
Actually I'll do a dash s so we can see
that streamed in and go. Now fabric,
while it's doing this thing, just
think about what it's doing right now.
First it's going to summarize
that entire article.
Then it's going to kick its summary
over to the right essay pattern.
That's powerful. This is
crazy. Writing an essay.
We can also do a thing where we
analyze the claims of the article.
This is not stitching, I just want
to see what happens. Analyze claims,
I mean, this is just cool. Again, these
prompts, crowdsourced, open sourced,
they've been meddled with and messed
with to make 'em perfect and they're not
perfect. I mean they're still
going to be worked on improved.
You can also do one called label and
rate giving it a quality score saying
it's B tier, consume when time allows.
This is another superpower of fabric and
the idea and the mentality is bringing
two AI and how you might
approach your life.
We'll talk more about that here in a
minute. I don't want to dive too deep,
but now I want to show you how you can
create your own patterns because right
now we're using what's
built in default just there.
So I'll show you how you can approach
writing a pattern and then getting it into
fabric so you can use it. Keeping in
mind that when you write a pattern,
it remains local to you. It doesn't
get uploaded to the fabric repository,
and none of that's happening unless you
want to submit it. That's up to you.
Everything's still private. But when I
first started trying to write patterns,
I didn't really know how to do it.
So I would just go and pick one of
my favorite ones, extract wisdom,
and just kind of modify it, which
is absolutely a great way to do it.
But then I found this, there's a pattern.
There's a pattern for everything. See,
a pattern means solving a problem.
There's a pattern called Improve Prompt
that basically does everything for you.
It's crazy. So check this
out, we'll do it real quick.
We'll echo something and say you are,
we'll just try to write it on
prompt real quick, but messy, dirty.
And by the way, this is a real
example of how I wanted to,
and I talked with Daniel about this,
how I wanted to digest sermons better.
I go to church every Sunday.
Sometimes I'm serving in the
nursery taking care of babies,
and I miss the sermon. Now,
I rarely have time to go back and
watch the sermon throughout the week.
So if I could just somehow digest
it like this, that'd be amazing.
But I wanted to create a pattern
that would look for specific things,
unique to a sermon. So
let's try this. Alright,
so I'll pipe that out to fabric and
I'll do the pattern and prove prompt.
That's crazy, right? This is so cool.
So this is just live off the cuff.
I'm going to take this, copy it.
So now I've got my instruction and
I'm going to go to the place where our
patterns live. Here's where
they live. We'll go to cd.
We'll do dot config
slash fabric type in Ls.
Here we can see we have
a directory for patterns.
That's the patterns that fabric we'll use.
And then we have a directory called
My Patterns, which is what I created.
So go ahead and make that for yourself
right now. We'll do a mic directory,
M-K-D-I-R, let's call it
my super Awesome Patterns.
I'll jump in there. And then
to create our new pattern,
we'll make a new directory.
Call it Sermon Sensei.
It's a has how spell Sensei?
Nope. We'll CD in there.
And we'll make a new file called
System md. Do nano system md.
Jump in there and I'll paste the
contents of that pattern. Control X,
Y enter to safe. So to
summarize what we just did,
we created a directory to how our custom
patterns and inside that directory,
we made a new directory creating
a new pattern sermon sensei,
and we created a file called System md,
which is the system prompt to the
actual contents of the pattern. Now,
the reason we created our own super
awesome special directory is that often
patterns will be updated because
again, this is open sourced,
crowdsourced patterns are always being
improved. And if they're in the repo,
you'll want to update your patterns.
So we might do this fabric dash update
and that'll update your patterns,
but it will overwrite anything
that doesn't belong in there.
So we're keeping our custom patterns
inside my super awesome patterns.
That way they're never deleted,
but to make sure they can be used
by fabric when we run our commands,
we do need to copy everything
into the Patterns folder.
So we'll do that real quick.
We'll simply do copy or CP dash r,
we'll specify our directory,
our home directory symbol tilda
slash config slash fabric slash your
directory. So mine is super awesome,
that super awesome patterns.
We'll do the asterisk to make sure all
the folders and stuff are copied just so
into R patterns, directory config,
fabric patterns, just like that.
So now if we do fabric dash
dash list to list our patterns,
I should see sermon sensei right there.
Notice I have another one called Sermon
Wisdom, which I had previously created.
Now let's test out Sermon sensei. I'm
going to grab the sermon from my church,
one of our recent ones. Do yt, grab
that transcript, put the URL there,
and then pipe that into fabric using
my sermon sensei pattern I just
created. Now this is pretty cool and
honestly I think it needs some work.
So just like the open source
patterns in the fabric repo,
you can work on yours and keep iterating.
So the one I really enjoy is the one I
created Sermon Wisdom that I think does a
better job and that really does
demonstrate the power of a really,
really good prompt. I mean, I
love how it pulls out quotes.
Probably one of my favorite things,
and that was killer is the references
pulling out all the scripture or things
that he mentioned in the sermon. I
love that. Now looking back at Fabric,
if we type in fabric help,
we can see there are options
we haven't mentioned yet.
We're not going to go over all of them,
but one thing I do want to touch
on is the idea of a context.
I'll let Daniel talk
about that real quick.
This is the latest thing that I've
been working on under Config Fabric.
We now have a context file.
My context file is about
increasing human flourishing by
helping people identify, articulate,
and pursue their purpose in life.
Helping people transition to
Human 3.0 to be our best selves.
This is literally my soul that
I'm translating it to text.
I haven't done this yet, but I want
to make a context for myself soon.
Now I've got two more features.
I want to show you the PV paste option
for Linux users and the ability to save
anything you create with Fabric two
obsidian, my favorite notes application,
what I use and what I've been obsessing
over for a while now. Oh, it's so cool.
I just found this. But
before we get there,
I want to talk more about the philosophy
behind Fabric and why it's kind of
captured my imagination and why I
feel like it's more than just a fancy
prompter. Now, to understand that,
I think we need to know a bit more about
Daniel Mesler. Daniel Meer is a hacker.
That's his background. That's
what he did and still does.
And the reason I created it is
because I basically went independent
as of the end of 22. As soon as the ai,
as soon as GPT-4 launched, I was
working at Robinhood at the time.
I built a VM program over there.
And before that I was at Apple
and a bunch of other places,
and I had been in AI for five, six years.
But when I saw g BT four happen,
I was like, okay, I'm out.
I basically got out and said,
I need to do this full time.
So I started collecting all this different
AI stuff as I'm sure everyone has
seen. And what I found after a
couple of months is like, okay,
I've got a million different prompts.
Now what do I actually do with them?
What I started doing is collecting them
into an infrastructure that I could use
personally, and this is a
little bit before Fabric,
but it became the content for Fabric.
And essentially what it turns
into is these patterns here.
And you can tell just by using these
patterns that this is the result of many,
many iterations. It does things so well.
And if you've been using
AI for a while, again,
you know what it feels like to use a
really good prompt and had your results be
so clean and almost exactly what you were
looking for or even more than what you
expected. And that's so fun.
Now I want to get back to the
idea of human flourishing. Again,
that is the goal of the Fabric Project,
and honestly, when you hear that,
it kind of captures your imagination,
right? I love, because for me,
I dunno if you're like this,
but the more AI advances,
the more I get just a little bit more
scared of where my place in the world
might be. But when I hear
about projects like Fabric,
where it's not about replacing humans,
but about augmenting humans
to help us become better,
to help us think better and to
help us consume more content.
And that's one of the main things
that Daniel uses this tool for.
One of the main reasons he created this
tool is that there's so much content
being produced all the time from
YouTube videos to podcasts to articles.
Just staying relevant in your space and
your niche takes a tremendous amount of
time. Time. You don't
have to consume things.
A big part of it is I am using
it to determine what I should go
watch regularly. In fact, I'm actually
building a product around that called,
but I won't say what it's called, but
I'm building a product around that.
So just because I need it
in my life, essentially,
I'm using it as a filter to determine
what I should go watch and then go watch
it fully. And oftentimes
I take manual notes,
but I watch or listen
to it in its entirety,
and then I go and take notes
on it and it spawns thoughts.
So I'm not stepping away and disengaging,
I'm still reading massive number of books,
I'm still watching the videos,
I'm still reading the essays.
What this is helping me do is
just filter out or filter up or
raise attention to the particular
stuff that I want to watch.
So a big way he uses fabric
is to filter out what is good,
what deserves a long watch or what
just needs to be summarized and
quickly digest it.
And it's so cool because
the way he created fabric
in a lot of these prompts is
he designed these prompts,
these patterns in a way that is meant
to mimic the way he would approach
something,
the way he would watch a video and
take notes the way he would listen to a
podcast and take notes.
It's kind of crazy.
My very first thing that I made for
Fabric is the ability to emulate as if I
took slow notes on a
piece of content by hand.
And that's what this emulates.
Now a little story time.
The past six months,
I've been on a journey
of being very particular,
very intentional with what I
consume, how I spend my time,
and writing down as many things as I can,
taking good notes, processing things.
And that led me to my
question I asked Daniel,
and that's if we start
using things like fabric,
AI tools to do the processing
and thinking for us,
do we lose that value? So the
curmudgeon in me, the old man in me,
don't do the AI stuff.
It's going to keep you from becoming a
deep thinker and learning how to really
analyze things. But here's
what Daniel said about this.
Yeah,
I think the way to use it is to use the
context stuff
that we're starting to build now that's
already in the project and basically
define what you're trying to do. You
can define inside of the context,
I need to learn this
much about these topics,
recommend to me the best
courses to do that with.
And then when you take a piece
of content and it's overwhelming,
you could put it through fabric
and essentially distill it down.
And importantly,
it could tell you what not to distill
down because there's so much advantage to
going back to your earlier point,
you don't want to take the
weights out of the gym.
So everything shouldn't be a summary.
Sometimes you have to
put the hard work in,
but you can use it to tell you
or advise you or recommend to you
which things you should do slow and
painful and difficult because that's where
you get the most muscle growth.
Don't take the weights out of the gym.
So he'll use fabric to help him determine
what should be slowly watched and
processed. We saw that earlier
with the label and rate pattern.
It tells you like, oh yeah, you
got to watch this right now,
or you could wait on that. Again,
it's not about replacing humans replacing
you, it's about making you better,
about taking your current capabilities
and using AI to increase that at a
faster rate than you could before.
It's about identifying a problem that you
might have and then creating a pattern
to help you solve that problem.
And all the patterns you're seeing there
that are built into fabric are a result
of like, I've got this problem.
Here's a pattern that can fix it.
And you can do the same
thing for your life.
And we talked a bit about a feedback
loop to where I may have fabric,
I'll create a pattern for this that I'll
look over my journal entries throughout
the week and then it'll tell me,
maybe you didn't read enough that week
and that's why you're feeling sad. Or,
Hey, you're feeling fantastic
because you ran four times this week.
Keep doing that.
It's that kind of augmentation that I'm
really excited about and that's where I
see myself growing the fabric.
And I literally use this all
the time for so many things.
Me and Daniel also talked about how we
both started recording conversations.
Like any conversation we have with
a sibling, a friend, a spouse,
record it, then transcribe it with Whisper
ai, which is you can use it locally,
it's free, and then pipe that into fabric.
I actually started doing this recently
with, we have a weekly bible study.
We have a core group of people where
we meet and we talk about our lives and
things and tell funny stories and talk
about what we were learning and going
through.
So I recorded that and I created a pattern
that would extract the things I might
care about from those moments.
Check this out. It's so cool.
So I have the recording transcribed.
I'll cat that and pipe it into
fabric using my GC analyzer.
That's what we call our
communities gospel communities.
And I won't show you everything in
this because it's very personal,
but I want to show you how
cool this is. And honestly,
this whole fabric project is making
me rethink about the role of AI in
my life. It's here. Like it or not,
what are you going to use it for?
How can you use it to
help make you better?
And that was the first video I made
ever about ai. Chad GPT came out,
I was terrified, but then after
processing it a bit more, I'm like,
you know what? This is going to
make us better. It's about us.
It's about humans flourishing.
There was a funny moment about,
it was just a funny story
about sleepwalking and it
found that, that's so cool.
I just did this one. Look at
the funny moments here. Yeah,
we talk about weird stuff, but
I want to remember that stuff.
I want to be able to go back to that
search, have that in my second brain.
That's a video coming soon. And again,
I talked with Daniel about a
lot more stuff including coffee.
So if you want to see that entire
talk, that entire conversation,
you can check the link below to Network
Check Academy, which is my new project,
my baby, where I'm creating it. Courses
to help you become awesome in it.
I would love for you to join. We have
an amazing community. Go check it out.
Link below. Now, the two more
things I wanted to show you First,
this PB paste thing.
Actually, you know what,
I'm not going to show you right here.
I'm going to make a video about it,
and by the time you watch this
video, that one should already be up.
So go here somewhere, it's going to
be awesome. Just go and jump there.
But now to the Obsidian Save
thing, this is so awesome.
So let's take that same
discussion here from my GC
analyzer. I can save that
directly to obsidian.
There's a command that is baked into
fabric called Save just like this.
And what that will do is save the contents
of whatever you're doing in fabric to
a note in obsidian, creating a
new note. Now to make that happen,
we first have to tell fabric where
our obsidian lives in our operating
system. So if you're new to obsidian,
obsidian is all about just text-based
documents. Again, world of text.
All it is just a bunch of markdown files
and it's somewhere on my hard drive to
tell fabric where that is. I'll just edit
an environment file. So I'll go nano,
jump it to my config
folder, fabric folder,
and there should be a file
NV for environment variables.
You can see that's also where
our API keys are stored.
And here's my path to the directory.
I want to store new mark dime files
created by fabric. With that in place,
I want to take away the S option.
I don't want to stream it.
I'm just going to save this to a file.
So I'll pipe it out to the save command
and then I'll just name it and go.
And then if I jump into my obsidian,
which we're going to shield
most of this from you,
if I go to my specific folder, there
it is. Auto Magically. That's killer.
Again, it's all about removing friction.
This is so amazing. I love this stuff.
Lemme know if you like this too.
Lemme know if you want me to make more
videos like this about new AI tools or
just exploring how we can
improve ourselves and make
ourselves better with the
help of ai. I don't know.